docs: "What's new in Svelte" March newsletter (#1822)
sveltejs/svelte.dev: apps/svelte.dev/content/blog/2026-03-01-whats-new-in-svelte-march-2026.md

- `better-auth` is now an official addon in the Svelte CLI (**sv@0.12.0**, [#898](https://github.com/sveltejs/cli/pull/898))

Looking for more details on the many bug fixes and performance optimizations from this month? Check out the SvelteKit / Adapter [CHANGELOGs](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/main/packages).

---

## Community Showcase

### Apps & Sites built with Svelte

- [Cherit](https://keshav.is-a.dev/Cherit/) is a lightning-fast, open-source markdown knowledge base built with Tauri
- [arenarium/maps](https://arenarium.dev/) is a clearer way to display complex map markers in MapLibre, Mapbox or Google Maps
- [Synth Town](https://synth.town/) is a generative music city builder using Threlte + Tone.js
- [Beatjie](https://dindles.net/beatjie/) is a little audio groovebox that lets you make beats and share them with a URL ([GitHub](https://github.com/dindles/beatjie/))
- [Mistral AI's Worldwide Hackathon](https://worldwide-hackathon.mistral.ai/) site was built with Svelte ([Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/sveltejs/comments/1r25ezg/just_launched_our_first_svelte_project_at_mistral/))

> - [Frame](https://github.com/66HEX/frame) is a high-performance media conversion utility that provides a native interface for FFmpeg operations, allowing for granular control over video and audio transcoding parameters

Reviewer: Was this site added again on purpose? I think it was already mentioned last month in https://svelte.dev/blog/whats-new-in-svelte-february-2026

Author: Nope! That's an accidental dupe

- [Tailsync](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tailsync/id6758315448) is a reverb calculator for music production for iOS
- [Otterly](https://github.com/ajkdrag/otterly) is a local-first, privacy-focused WYSIWYG Markdown vault with full-text search, wiki-links, and a rich editor
- [SoundTime](https://github.com/CICCADA-CORP/SoundTime) is a self-hosted music streaming platform with peer-to-peer sharing using Rust & Svelte
- [ATS Screener](https://ats-screener.vercel.app/) lets you see how popular applicant tracking systems parse, filter, and score your resume
- [Heavy Duty Inc.](https://heavydutyinc.itch.io/heavy-duty-inc) is a turn-based tactics game built with Threlte where you solve jobs for the different space station factions, navigate their strained political environment, die, and do it all over again
- [Quest Mate](https://quest-mate.com/) is a universal GM space for all your campaigns, lore, sheets, notes and summaries
- [cold0](https://github.com/danesto/cold0) is a self-hosted cold email sender that lets you manage contact lists, create email templates with dynamic variables, and send personalized bulk emails

> - [HelixNotes](https://codeberg.org/ArkHost/HelixNotes) is a local markdown note-taking app where notes are stored as standard Markdown files on your local filesystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [HelixNotes](https://helixnotes.com/) is a local markdown note-taking app where notes are stored as standard Markdown files on your local filesystem
```
Added link to official site. It has a link back to the source code in the hero section

- [Codeinput](https://codeinput.com/) lets you handle merge conflicts without leaving your browser, merge faster with an intelligent queue, automate repository tasks, view live engineering metrics, and manage advanced CODEOWNERS

### Learning Resources

_Featuring Svelte Contributors and Ambassadors_

- [Why I choose Svelte](https://mainmatter.com/blog/2026/02/24/why-choose-svelte/) and [Truly Native Apps with Svelte?](https://mainmatter.com/blog/2025/05/22/native-apps-with-svelte/) by Paolo Ricciuti

_This Week in Svelte_

- [Ep. 129](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmCd6nbID_Y) — Changelog
- [Ep. 130](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q0-AglM1J7A) — Changelog
- [Ep. 131](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8DkAiCbY9mE) — Changelog

### Libraries, Tools & Components

- [Laravel + Svelte Starter Kit](https://github.com/laravel/svelte-starter-kit) is an official kit from Laravel that provides a robust, modern starting point for building Laravel applications with a Svelte frontend using Inertia.
- [Shimmer From Structure](https://github.com/darula-hpp/shimmer-from-structure) is a structure-aware skeleton loader that mirrors your rendered UI at runtime

> - [Hoikka](https://github.com/mhernesniemi/hoikka) is an opinionated, full-stack e-commerce platform built with SvelteKit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Hoikka](https://www.hoikka.dev/) is an opinionated, full-stack e-commerce platform built with SvelteKit
```
Added link to official site. It has a link to GitHub in the top-right corner
